[Music]
fifteen tricky matchstick puzzles only
brilliant minds can solve
[Music]
matchstick riddles might seem a little
childish but many of them are so
difficult not even adults can crack them
so how sharp are your logic skills
number one holy cow and one made out of
matchsticks creative help this cow look
behind its shoulders you know to check
for predators or old McDonald but you
can only move two sticks
answer these two sticks make the cow's
head so let's just move them to the
right and voila now our cow is looking
behind number two here we have nine
matchstick squares but we're not about
to play tic-tac-toe your task is simple
remove four sticks so that there's only
five squares left
times a-tickin answer let's remove one
stick from the second square one from
the fourth one from the sixth and
finally one from the eighth and that's
it five squares just how it should be
number three let's get a bit fancier
shall we
this is a matchstick wineglass with a
cherry in it but you don't like cherries
in your wine so move only two
matchsticks so that the cherry is
outside the glass
answer these three sticks already form
the stem and base of the glass so just
move these two sticks and the new wine
glass is done saw cherry number four Hey
I passed first grade math and I know
that's not right
fix this equation by adding just one
matchstick you have 15 seconds answer
just put one match to here to make the
number 4 out of the plus sign and there
it is now this equation makes perfect
sense your elementary teacher would be
proud
number 5 Larry the lobster has his claws
pointed up
maybe he's shrugging his shoulders
because he doesn't have a clue how to
solve these puzzles help him out a
little by replacing 3 sticks to point
his claws downward
[Music]
answer here's how it's done we placed
one of the lobster leg sticks right
there its cloth there and a part of its
head here there you go Larry just how
you want it number six
sorry folks we're adding a bit of math
again here's a one seventh fraction
written in Roman numerals move just one
match so that this fraction equals one
[Music]
answer one of the sticks that make the
seven can be used to make a square root
of one instead that way we get 1/1 which
obviously equals one if you figure this
out Congrats you won number seven oh no
we're spiraling out of control with this
matchstick spiral move three sticks so
that we get two squares yeah fifteen
seconds to figure it out
[Music]
answer moving three sticks from the end
of the spiral will do the trick
and there's your two squares Ferentz
number eight
you only have three matchsticks bummer
let's double the fun and make six out of
them but no breaking a single one answer
who said Roman numerals were off the
table here you can make a Roman numeral
six with just one move mystery solved
number nine look carefully at these two
different sized squares can you guess
how to move four matchsticks to form not
two but three squares think about it
[Music]
answer easy-peasy grab these two sticks
from the top right and two sticks from
the bottom left just place them like
that and tada three perfectly fine
squares number 10 we too many squares
don't you think let's try some triangles
for example this big one move three
matchsticks to make three equal size
triangles out of it
your time starts now answer our new
triangles don't necessarily have to be
big just move these sticks right here to
make one at the top and two at the
bottom piece of cake
number 11 here's a ridiculously untrue
equation but it can be fixed by moving
just one match yep you were right only
one try to figure out how
[Music]
answer did you get it it's easier than
you think just move one stick out of the
eight to make a nine and lay right in
the zero to make an eight and now this
equation deserves an A plus number
twelve
Jack be nimble Jack be quick Jack check
out this candlestick made out of five
matches that is try to move just three
sticks to turn this candle into a hat
you have 15 seconds to work your magic
answer one right there above and two
symmetrically right here in abracadabra
the candlestick is no more it's a
brand-new matchstick hat number thirteen
here you can see the number of 5008 make
the highest possible number by moving
only two matchsticks answer the highest
number you can form is five hundred and
eleven thousand one hundred and eight
simply remove two horizontal matchsticks
from the first zero and make a separate
number one out of them another possible
option is eight hundred and eleven
thousand one hundred and five if you
flip it upside down
number fourteen these matchstick scales
are uneven move five matches and balance
these scales out
[Music]
answer now this one's a bit more
complicated you have to move one of the
pens and put it on the same level as the
other top it off like this and there you
have it let's see if our final puzzle is
just as challenging number fifteen four
three four six and what could the next
matchstick number be help us find the
next number please oh were you expecting
the answer I was completely stumped by
this last puzzle but maybe you've
already figured it out please share your
knowledge in the comments below
don't forget to hit that like button and
share this video with all your friends
to test their logic skills to join us on
the bright side